I've been teaching version control for almost as long as I've
been using it. Over the years I've refined how I've taught this
topic, and have learned a lot about what doesn't work in the
traditional ways we currently teach version control. In this
learning series, I'm going to be doing things a little bit
differently. Instead of focusing on the commands you'll be
running, I'm going to try and start with WHY you'd want to do
something, and then show you HOW you'd go about implementing
the solution.

As a developer, I've learned a lot of little hacks to help me
be more efficiently. I'm still not fantastic at the command
line. I haven't replaced myself with a tiny shell script, but I
am very comfortable working from the command line. I enjoy the
elegance of not having to click eleventy buttons on eight
screens, and instead just issuing a few commands. I've also
found it's a lot easier to write cheat sheets for the command
line than for a GUI. And there seem to be a lot more answers on
Stack Overflow, but that could just be Google optimizing the
answers for the types of things I'm normally looking for.

As this learning series is a "watch over my shoulder" type of
series, we're going to work in my usual fashion: from the
command line. Unlike watching over my actual shoulder, you'll
be able to pause the video, and loop back over anything I've
said if you missed it the first time.

Throughout this learning series I'm going to assume you have a
number of things setup and ready to go. I'll be working from
the command line. If you prefer to use a GUI, you'll need to
figure out how these commands map onto your software
application. I encourage you to try the command line with me.

One of the reasons why people like having a GUI is that it
helps them to create a visual map of what they're working on.
Instead of relying on software to provide this map, I'll be
using diagrams. I encourage you to grab a drawing tool (paper
and pen work great!) and sketch along with me. Creating your
own diagrams will help the learning process as the movement
helps to build yet another neural pathway to the information.

But before we get started, I have a little warm-up exercise for you.

Being able to describe in words, or with pictures, how
something works, converts it from the abstract, into something
which can be programmed. Any time we are able to use words in a
linear fashion (i.e. talking through a problem), we are able to
find the corresponding commands that we'll need to issue to
make our process work. If you are not able to diagram, or
describe your problem, it will be near impossible to find the
matching commands you need to run.

So I want you to sketch the assembly line for your code as it exists currently, or as 
you think you would like it to work.


I've got some examples for you to get you started thinking about how we work as teams when we collaborate at the command line.


[cut to slides]